Clarify desired security properties (#119)
cfrg/draft-irtf-cfrg-hpke: draft-irtf-cfrg-hpke.md

The `psk` and `pskID` fields MUST appear together or not at all.
That is, if a non-default value is provided for one of them, then
the other MUST be set to a non-default value. This requirement is
encoded in the `VerifyPSKInputs` function below.

The key, nonce, and exporter_secret computed by this algorithm have the
property that they are only known to the holder of the recipient private
key, and the entity that used the KEM to generate `zz` and `enc`.
If the AuthEncap function of the KEM was used to generate `zz` and `enc`,
the recipient is assured that the sender held the private key `sKS`.
If the `psk` and `pskID` arguments are provided, then the recipient is

> assured that the sender held the PSK. The PSK is also improving the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
assured that the sender held the pre-shared key (PSK). The PSK is also improving the
```

(If this is the first time "PSK" occurs)

> assured that the sender held the PSK. The PSK is also improving the
> confidentiality guarantee, as described in more detail in
> {{sec-properties}}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
assured that the sender held the corresponding PSK. See {{sec-properties}} for more details.
```

(We can leave discussion about confidentiality guarantees and properties to the security considerations section.)

The `psk` and `pskID` fields MUST appear together or not at all.
That is, if a non-default value is provided for one of them, then
the other MUST be set to a non-default value. This requirement is
encoded in the `VerifyPSKInputs` function below.

The `psk`, `pskID`, and `info` fields have maximum lengths that depend
on the KDF itself, on the definition of `LabeledExtract`, and on the
constant labels used together with them. See {{kdf-input-length}} for
precise limits on these lengths.

The `key`, `nonce`, and `exporter_secret` computed by this algorithm have the
property that they are only known to the holder of the recipient private
key, and the entity that used the KEM to generate `zz` and `enc`.
If the AuthEncap function of the KEM was used to generate `zz` and `enc`,

> the recipient is assured that the sender held the private key `sKS`.

Reviewer: This isn't quite true (per the KCI problems noted in our offline thread) -- can we adjust this?

### Authentication using a Pre-Shared Key {#mode-psk}

This variant extends the base mechanism by allowing the recipient to

> authenticate that the sender possessed a given pre-shared key (PSK).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
authenticate that the sender possessed a given PSK.
```

> The PSK is also improving the confidentiality guarantee, as described
> in more detail in {{sec-properties}}. We assume that both parties have
> been provisioned with both the PSK value `psk` and another byte string
> `pskID` that is used to identify which PSK should be used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The PSK also improves confidentiality guarantees in certain adversary models, 
as described in more detail in {{sec-properties}}. We assume that both parties have
been provisioned with both the PSK value `psk` and another byte string
`pskID` that is used to identify which PSK should be used.
```

`AuthDecap(enc, skR, pkS)` produces the correct KEM shared secret
only if the encapsulated value `enc` was produced by
`AuthEncap(pkR, skS)`, where `skS` is the private key corresponding

> to `pkS`.  In other words, only two entities could have produced this

Reviewer: 👍

`AuthDecap(enc, skR, pkS)` produces the correct KEM shared secret
only if the encapsulated value `enc` was produced by
`AuthEncap(pkR, skS)`, where `skS` is the private key corresponding
to `pkS`.  In other words, only two entities could have produced this
secret, so if the recipient is one, then the sender is the other
with overwhelming probability.

> The primary differences from the base case are:

Reviewer 2: Since there's only one difference, we could just have this as a paragraph: "The primary difference from the base case is that the calls to ..."

Reviewer: 👍

Reviewer: I'll make this change after merging!

secrets of senders and recipients. The desired security goals are
detailed below:

* Message secrecy: Privacy of the sender's messages, i.e., IND-CCA2
  security
* Export key secrecy: Indistinguishability of each export
  secret from a uniformly random bitstring of equal length
* Sender authentication: Proof of sender origin for PSK, Auth, and
  AuthPSK modes

These security goals are expected to hold for any honest sender and
honst recipient keys, as well as if the honest sender and honest

> recipient keys are the same. The latter is useful for encrypt-to-self
> settings like for example file encryption.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
recipient keys are the same.
```

As noted in {{non-goals}}, HPKE does not provide forward secrecy.
In the Base mode, the secrecy properties are only expected to
hold if the recipient private key skR is not compromised at any point
in time. In the PSK and AuthPSK modes, the secrecy properties are
expected to hold if the recipient private key skR and the pre-shared key
are not both compromised at any point in time.

In the Auth mode, sender authentication is generally expected to hold if
the sender private key skS is not compromised at the time of message
reception. In the AuthPSK mode, sender authentication is generally
expected to hold if at the time of message reception, the sender private
key skS and the pre-shared key are not both compromised. However, it is
important to note that the DHKEM variants defined in this document are
vulnerable to key-compromise impersonation, which means that sender
authentication cannot be expected to hold in the Auth mode if the
recipient private key skR is compromised, and in the AuthPSK mode if the
pre-shared key and the recipient private key skR are both compromised.

> With the two preceeding paragraphs it becomes apparent that the
> pre-shared key strengthens both the authentication and the secrecy
> properties in certain adversary models. One particular example in which

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Given these properties, pre-shared keys strengthen both the authentication and the 
secrecy properties in certain adversary models. One particular example in which
```

> this can be useful is a hybrid quantum setting: when a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
this can be useful is a hybrid quantum setting: if a
```

> non-quantum-resistant KEM used with HPKE is eventually broken by a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
non-quantum-resistant KEM used with HPKE is broken by a
```

quantum computer, the security properties are preserved through the use
of a pre-shared key. This assumes that the pre-shared key has not been

> compromised by this time, as described in {{WireGuard}}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
compromised, as described in {{WireGuard}}.
```

It is shown in {{CS01}} that a hybrid public-key encryption scheme of
essentially the same form described here is IND-CCA2-secure as long as
the underlying KEM and AEAD schemes are IND-CCA2-secure. The main
difference between the scheme proposed there and the scheme in this
document (both named HPKE) is that we interpose some KDF calls between

> the KEM and the AEAD. So further analysis is needed on two fronts, first
> to verify that the additional KDF calls do not cause the IND-CCA2
> property to fail, and second to verify the two additional properties
> noted above (export key secrecy and sender authentication).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the KEM and the AEAD. Analyzing the HPKE instantiation in this
document therefore required verifying that the additional KDF calls 
do not cause the IND-CCA2 property to fail, as well as verifying the 
two additional properties noted above (export key secrecy and 
sender authentication).
```

This work has been done for the case where the KEM is DHKEM, the AEAD is
any IND-CCA2-secure scheme, and the DH group and KDF satisfy the

> following conditions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
following conditions {{HPKEAnalysis}}:
```
